Referee Report

Generally, this first revision of the manuscript is greatly improved
relative to the original submission. However, in my opinion, a few of my
'major' original comments have not yet been properly addressed.
Below I mention the (residual) comments and questions that I would like to
see adequately addressed before I can accept this manuscript for publication
in A&A. The original comments (incl. their enumeration) are inherited from
my first report to prevent confusion. After stating the original question
or comment, I enter my follow-up comments to the authors' reply.


9. Sect. 3.4, paragraph 2:
- Do I understand correctly that there is only one synthetic CMD produced for a
  given cluster? If so, how are stochastic fluctuations being accounted for in
  deriving the goodness of fit (i.e., the PLR and LPLR)? Please explain.

REFEREE'S RESPONSE TO REVISION #1:
  I thank the authors for their explanation of how the best synthetic
  cluster match is obtained; this addresses part of my original
  comment. However, at low cluster masses, one can get quite different
  CMD morphologies for any given combination of age, metallicity, and mass,
  especially in the (sparsely populated) post-MS parts of the CMD. This is
  because of the strong stochastic fluctuations at low cluster masses (<< 10e4
  Msun). So I would think a "best fit" to a given synthetic cluster (if the
  cluster has a low mass) doesn't necessarily mean a really good fit to the
  actual physical parameters of that synthetic cluster, especially if the
  bright post-MS regions of the CMD are given a relatively strong weight in the
  fit. Could the authors please address this?



13. Sect. 4, paragraph 5:
- "The apparent dependence of the metallicity error with decreasing [Fe/H]
  values arises from the fact that ASteCA uses Z values ..."

  Why is ASteCA using Z instead of [Fe/H] (or [M/H] or Z/Z_sun)? Sounds like an
  unfortunate choice to me, for the reason brought up here (and others as
  well). Please explain why this choice was made.
  This same issue also comes up in Appendix A.1, paragraph 2.

RESPONSE TO REVISION #1:
  OK, I understand your reasoning as to why you are (currently) using Z rather
  than [Fe/H]. But why not use Z/Z_sun? That would also keep the parameters
  positive, and one would still retain a relative scale similar to [Fe/H].



18. Sect. 5.2, paragraph 9 (near bottom of page 9):
- "In contrast, ASteCA assigns cluster masses taking their values directly from
  the best match synthetic CMD. Field star contamination will thus have a much
  lower influence on the code’s mass estimate, limited just to how effective the
  DA is in cleaning the cluster region." (etc etc)

  One issue that I don't understand from the explanations in this paper is how
  exactly ASteCA determines cluster masses. Specifically, as I mentioned in my
  point #8 above, it looks like ASteCA only takes stars above a certain
  brightness threshold into account. How then does ASteCA account for the mass
  associated with the fainter stars? Does it extrapolate based on a Chabrier
  IMF?
  Apart from that, how does ASteCA account for the fraction of the cluster's
  mass that is located outside the "cluster radius" that it assigns (which
  apparently is the radius where the star number density equals that of the
  "background" if I understood correctly). That fraction of mass will depend on
  the intrinsic mass profile of the cluster (say its King core radius and
  concentration parameter) and the cluster radius assigned by ASteCA.
  I don't see anything here, or in Sect. 5.2.1, or in Appendix A that clarifies
  these issues.
  Actually, I'm wondering whether the big discrepancies in mass estimates
  discussed in Sect. 5.2.1 could be explained in part by issues like this (see
  my next point). A more thorough explanation of this would be appreciated.

RESPONSE TO REVISION #1:
  I thank the authors for explaining the first part of my original comment very
  well, that is very clear.
  As to the second part of my comment regarding the correction of the fraction
  of the cluster's mass that is located outside the "cluster radius": I was not
  referring to cluster mass loss. I was simply referring to the issue that the
  tidal radius of the cluster is typically significantly larger than the
  radius at which the surface number density of the cluster equals that of the
  field, so that the real cluster mass is larger than what one would derive
  from the stars within the latter radius. The fraction of mass "missed" this
  way depends on the mass profile of the cluster. For the King model, that
  missed mass fraction can be described by the King core radius (or the
  effective radius) and the King concentration parameter. As such, this
  "correction factor" to the cluster mass will in principle be different for
  each cluster. It will be larger for clusters with larger (tidal) radii, or for
  clusters that are in regions with a relatively large number density of field
  stars. As I mentioned before, this issue has not been taken into account in
  this paper and it should.



19. Sect. 5.2.1:
- In this very long section on the cluster mass discrepancies, it is only at the
  end that the authors describe a correlation between the logarithmic
  differences in mass and those in age when comparing results of two studies
  (see Figs. 10 and 11). I was thinking about this possibility all along while
  reading this Section - after all, M/L correlates strongly with age.
  I would like the authors to take the differences in age between two studies
  into account when comparing their respective cluster masses. I.e., please plot
  and compare the logarithmic mass differences AFTER having corrected for the
  different M/L ratios associated with the differences in assigned log(age) by
  the two studies. The RESIDUAL differences in mass are the ones that should be
  discussed here.
  By the way, I looked in the literature for other mass determinations for the
  three clusters NGC 419, NGC 1917, and NGC 1751, i.e., the ones for which
  ASteCA estimated masses much smaller than for the DBs. See below:
  - For NGC 1917 I don't find direct mass determinations other than the two
    referred to in this paper, but I see that van den Bergh (1981, A&AS, 46, 79)
    lists V = 10.25 within an aperture of 62 arcsec. For log(age) = 9.15 and m-M
    = 18.48 as found by ASteCA, z = 0.008, and the Bruzual & Charlot (2003) SSP
    models, V = 10.25 corresponds to a mass of ~8e4 Msun for a Chabrier IMF,
    very similar to the masses reported by H03 and P12.
  - for NGC 419 and NGC 1751 I see that Goudfrooij et al. (2014, ApJ, 797, 35)
    determined masses of ~2.4e5 Msun and ~6.5e4, respectively. They did account
    for the fraction of cluster mass outside a given measurement aperture. The
    ages and metallicities they determined are very similar to the average of
    the ages and metallicities estimated by the studies referred to in this
    paper. They used a Salpeter IMF; for a Chabrier IMF their masses translate
    to 1.9e5 and 6e4 for NGC 419 and NGC 1751, respectively. Again, MUCH closer
    to the mass estimates by H03 and P12 than to the ASteCA one. And the
    differences in age assignments by ASteCA versus the other studies are minor
    in these cases, and certainly cannot explain the big differences in mass
    determinations. As such I get the impression that there may be problems with
    the mass determinations by ASteCA, at least for these massive clusters. I
    would like the authors to address and/or study this concern for the next
    version.

RESPONSE TO REVISION #1:
  I thank the authors for their long response to this comment of mine. There
  are, however, still some important issues that haven't been addressed yet (or
  not properly in my opinion), described below.

  (1) Unfortunately, the authors misinterpreted my comment regarding the
  different M/L values used by the H03 and P12 papers. What I meant was that
  the relation shown by the authors in their Figure 11 can be expected (even if
  the relative mass uncertainties of the H03 and P12 studies were identical).
  Specifically, it looks like the mass discrepancies between two studies
  are simply consistent with their differences in age determination. Since M/L
  increases with age roughly as log(M/L_V) ~ 0.7 log(age) + constant (according
  to the Bruzual & Charlot 2003 SSP models for Z = 0.008 and log(age) > 7 in
  this case - see also Fig. 6 in the authors' reply document), a difference in
  age assignment of a factor 2 simply corresponds to a mass difference of a
  factor 1.4. That seems to pretty much fully explain your Figure 11, and I
  expect it may also explain the trends seen in your Figure 10. Could you
  please check that and adjust your text if I am correct?

  (2) Issues related to crowding in the central regions of massive clusters.
  Looking for example at NGC 419, the authors state in their reply that the
  synthetic CMD for the mass estimated by H03 and Goudfrooij et al. has too
  many stars to be compatible with the observations used by ASteCA. While I
  agree with that statement, I also note that this synthetic CMD does look very
  similar to that for NGC 419 shown in the Goudfrooij et al. paper (after
  taking into account that the filter passbands are not the same). This is
  relevant in that the Goudfrooij et al. CMD was created from HST data with
  much higher spatial resolution than the observations used by ASteCA in this
  paper. For massive clusters like NGC 419, the completeness of HST photometry
  should be much higher in their central (crowded) regions than that of
  "regular" ground-based images; as such, it is quite likely that CMDs of
  massive clusters based on ground-based images will show significantly fewer
  stars than those based on HST images (within a given cluster-centric
  radius). There is clear evidence of this effect in the literature. Take for
  instance the case of the LMC cluster NGC 2209. Keller et al. (2012, ApJ, 761,
  L5) observed this cluster with GMOS on Gemini-S, and state the following:
  "Through artificial star addition we are able to investigate the effects of
  crowding on the photometry. Crowding becomes sufficiently problematic in the
  cluster inner regions, therefore we limit our attention to stars in NGC 2209
  in excess of 40 arcsec from the cluster center." Note that 40 arcsec is about
  twice the core radius of NGC 2209, so that a LOT of cluster stars are missed
  in their CMD. And this is for a seeing of only ~0.5 arcsec!!! In contrast,
  Correnti et al. (2014, ApJ, 793, 121) are able to reach all the way into the
  core of NGC 2209 using high-resolution HST images, illustrating this
  issue. But even for well-exposed HST images, the completeness in the central
  regions of massive LMC clusters decreases to about 50% for stars with
  brightnesses ~3 mag below the MSTO (see, e.g., Milone et al. 2009, A&A, 497,
  755), so that even HST photometry of individual stars will miss some
  significant part of the total mass (or light) of the cluster.
  All of these problems are in principle overcome by using integrated-light
  photometry. Now I acknowledge that integrated-light photometry can introduce
  other problems, as also mentioned by the authors, namely that it can be
  sensitive to stochastic fluctuations of bright post-MS stars. But this is
  mainly the case when using filter passbands in which the light of such stars
  dominates the cluster light output. For clusters with ages of 1-2 Gyr such as
  the three clusters NGC 1917, NGC 419, and NGC 1751, this is mainly the case
  for the near-IR filters where the TP-AGB stars dominate. However, this
  problem is NOT significant for the V-band: according to Lancon & Mouhcine
  (2000, http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2000ASPC..211...34L), the effect of
  stochastic fluctuations to integrated-light photometry in the V band is
  limited to < 10% for cluster masses > 6e3 Msun for 1-Gyr-old clusters. Since
  these clusters are clearly more massive than that and since their masses in
  the literature were determined from integrated-light photometry in the V
  band, I have to reject the authors' claim that the mass values given in those
  papers that use integrated magnitudes are systematically overestimated, at
  least for these (massive) clusters. As such, I ask the authors to either
  revise their Section 5.2.1 accordingly, or to come up with convincing reasons
  that show my arguments above to be incorrect.



22. Sect. 6.2, paragraph 5:
- "In both Clouds there is a tendency for the mass and the size of the cluster,
   to grow with the estimated age, as expected."

   Please explain why this is as expected.

RESPONSE TO REVISION #1:
  I thank the authors for a good explanation of this. Just to be a bit clearer
  to the reader, I would suggest to change the wording "the fading limit
  effect" to something like "the fact that M/L increases with age" in the paper.
