First a few general concerns:

A. All figures show up at low resolution in my PDF copy. They are quite hard to
   read (especially the labels), sometimes not at all. Can that be improved in
   the revised version?
[from editor: this might be what the office had to do to make the manuscript a
reasonable size to distribute]
B. The paper is rather long and I believe the text can be shortened by some
   20-30% without loss of relevant information. I would advise the authors to
   try to "compress" the paper to make it more accessible.

Below I mention my comments and questions regarding the paper in the order they
occur in the manuscript. Each comment or question is given a label "ADVISORY" or
"MANDATORY". These labels indicate whether I think the comment is just a
suggestion or something that needs to be addressed, respectively.

1. Sect. 1, near end of paragraph 3 (end of page 1):
- "Therefore, the study of star clusters affected by a significant amount of field
  star contamination, observed with fewer filters, and without information about
  its dynamics, should result significantly more complicated."

  This sentence is not in correct English and rather confusing. Please attempt
  to improve this sentence.
ADVISORY


2. Sect. 1, paragraph 4 (top left of page 2):
- I appreciate that "by eye" isochrone fitting studies can suffer from the
  shortcomings listed here, but not every photometric study of physical
  parameters of star clusters does this "by eye". There are certainly published
  studies that have done such fitting in a more rigorous way! Here are a few
  examples:
  Mackey & Broby Nielsen, 2007, MNRAS, 379, 151
  Goudfrooij et al. 2011, ApJ, 737, 3
  Dias et al. 2014, A&A, 561, A106
  The way this paragraph reads, it sounds like pretty much every study so far
  was done by eye. If that is not what the authors wanted to convey, please try
  to change the wording.
ADVISORY


3. Sect. 2:
- Please (briefly) explain why the authors chose these particular datasets for
  this study.
MANDATORY


4. Sect. 3.1, paragraph 1:
- Here (and in other sections of the paper as well) you mention "parameters
  values" a few times. The correct statement is "parameter values".
ADVISORY


5. Sect. 3.1, paragraph 1:
- "Especial care" -> "Special care"
ADVISORY


6. Table 3:
- Why choose such a small value for the max. cluster mass? There are MC clusters
  with larger masses (as the paper discusses in Sect. 5.2.1 later). One could
  imagine that for masses > 1e4, the system could pick a larger step (say 2000)
  and then choose a larger max. mass like (say) 2e5 Msun.
MANDATORY


7. Figure 2:
- First, place add a panel showing a 2-D greyscale (or color) image of the
  cluster region for comparison.
- Second, the "green crosses" in the top right panel show up as light blue in my
  PDF copy.
ADVISORY


8. Sect. 3.4, paragraph 1:
- Looking at Figure 2, it seems to me that the synthetic CMDs only contain stars
  down to a given limiting magnitude (T1 = 22 in Figure 2, apparently?). I don't
  see this mentioned in this Section. Please do so.
MANDATORY


9. Sect. 3.4, paragraph 2:
- Do I understand correctly that there is only one synthetic CMD produced for a
  given cluster? If so, how are stochastic fluctuations being accounted for in
  deriving the goodness of fit (i.e., the PLR and LPLR)? Please explain.
MANDATORY


10. Sect. 4, paragraph 1:
- "... a detailed error treatment is usually ignored in articles ..."

  I judge this as an overgeneralization. I would suggest to change "usually" to
  something like "often".
ADVISORY


11. Sect. 4, paragraph 2:
- "In Fig. 3 we show the distribution of the standard deviations versus the five
  fundamental parameters ..."

  "versus" should be "of" if I understand this sentence correctly.
ADVISORY


12. Figure 3: The labels and values along the axes are not readable in my PDF
    copy. Please enlarge.
MANDATORY


13. Sect. 4, paragraph 5:
- "The apparent dependence of the metallicity error with decreasing [Fe/H]
  values arises from the fact that ASteCA uses Z values ..."

  Why is ASteCA using Z instead of [Fe/H] (or [M/H] or Z/Z_sun)? Sounds like an
  unfortunate choice to me, for the reason brought up here (and others as
  well). Please explain why this choice was made.
  This same issue also comes up in Appendix A.1, paragraph 2.
MANDATORY


14. Sect. 5.1, paragraph 2:
- "First, the MC's star clusters are generally considered to have low
  metallicities."

  I don't think that is true. [Fe/H] values of -0.7 to -0.4 dex are hardly "low
  metallicity" for star clusters.... relative to what?
  And even if so, why would researchers prefer to choose a value on the low side
  rather than the high side??? Please explain.
MANDATORY


15. Sect. 5.1, paragraph 2:
- "Researchers also tend to fit isochrones adjusting it to the lower envelope of
  a cluster’s sequence; which also contributes to the selection of isochrones of
  smaller metallicity."

  It is not that simple. There is a good reason for that choice by researchers,
  namely that isochrones should be fit to the SINGLE stars in star clusters. The
  binary stars are "above and to the right" of the single stars (when the
  sequence in question is not vertical on the CMD), and hence one should in fact
  fit isochrones to the "lower envelope" of those sequences. Please address this
  in your text.
MANDATORY


16. Sect. 5, paragraph 6 (top of page 9):
- "... the distance to clusters in the latter is always assumed to be a fixed
  constant equivalent to the distance to the center of the corresponding
  galaxy."

  That is again an overstatement. Several studies (such as those mentioned in my
  point 2 above) do properly fit the distance modulus to the CMD data. Please
  rephase (e.g., mention "often" rather than "always").
MANDATORY


17. Sect. 5, paragraph 7 (2nd paragraph on page 9):
- "The identity plot (top) shows a trend ..."

  That's an unusual name for such a plot. I'd suggest to just mention something
  like "The top panel shows a trend ..."
ADVISORY


18. Sect. 5.2, paragraph 9 (near bottom of page 9):
- "In contrast, ASteCA assigns cluster masses taking their values directly from
  the best match synthetic CMD. Field star contamination will thus have a much
  lower influence on the code’s mass estimate, limited just to how effective the
  DA is in cleaning the cluster region." (etc etc)

  One issue that I don't understand from the explanations in this paper is how
  exactly ASteCA determines cluster masses. Specifically, as I mentioned in my
  point #8 above, it looks like ASteCA only takes stars above a certain
  brightness threshold into account. How then does ASteCA account for the mass
  associated with the fainter stars? Does it extrapolate based on a Chabrier
  IMF?
  Apart from that, how does ASteCA account for the fraction of the cluster's
  mass that is located outside the "cluster radius" that it assigns (which
  apparently is the radius where the star number density equals that of the
  "background" if I understood correctly). That fraction of mass will depend on
  the intrinsic mass profile of the cluster (say its King core radius and
  concentration parameter) and the cluster radius assigned by ASteCA.
  I don't see anything here, or in Sect. 5.2.1, or in Appendix A that clarifies
  these issues.
  Actually, I'm wondering whether the big discrepancies in mass estimates
  discussed in Sect. 5.2.1 could be explained in part by issues like this (see
  my next point). A more thorough explanation of this would be appreciated.
MANDATORY


19. Sect. 5.2.1:
- In this very long section on the cluster mass discrepancies, it is only at the
  end that the authors describe a correlation between the logarithmic
  differences in mass and those in age when comparing results of two studies
  (see Figs. 10 and 11). I was thinking about this possibility all along while
  reading this Section - after all, M/L correlates strongly with age.
  I would like the authors to take the differences in age between two studies
  into account when comparing their respective cluster masses. I.e., please plot
  and compare the logarithmic mass differences AFTER having corrected for the
  different M/L ratios associated with the differences in assigned log(age) by
  the two studies. The RESIDUAL differences in mass are the ones that should be
  discussed here.
  By the way, I looked in the literature for other mass determinations for the
  three clusters NGC 419, NGC 1917, and NGC 1751, i.e., the ones for which
  ASteCA estimated masses much smaller than for the DBs. See below:
  - For NGC 1917 I don't find direct mass determinations other than the two
    referred to in this paper, but I see that van den Bergh (1981, A&AS, 46, 79)
    lists V = 10.25 within an aperture of 62 arcsec. For log(age) = 9.15 and m-M
    = 18.48 as found by ASteCA, z = 0.008, and the Bruzual & Charlot (2003) SSP
    models, V = 10.25 corresponds to a mass of ~8e4 Msun for a Chabrier IMF,
    very similar to the masses reported by H03 and P12.
  - for NGC 419 and NGC 1751 I see that Goudfrooij et al. (2014, ApJ, 797, 35)
    determined masses of ~2.4e5 Msun and ~6.5e4, respectively. They did account
    for the fraction of cluster mass outside a given measurement aperture. The
    ages and metallicities they determined are very similar to the average of
    the ages and metallicities estimated by the studies referred to in this
    paper. They used a Salpeter IMF; for a Chabrier IMF their masses translate
    to 1.9e5 and 6e4 for NGC 419 and NGC 1751, respectively. Again, MUCH closer
    to the mass estimates by H03 and P12 than to the ASteCA one. And the
    differences in age assignments by ASteCA versus the other studies are minor
    in these cases, and certainly cannot explain the big differences in mass
    determinations. As such I get the impression that there may be problems with
    the mass determinations by ASteCA, at least for these massive clusters. I
    would like the authors to address and/or study this concern for the next
    version.
MANDATORY


20. Sect. 6.2, paragraph 2 (near top right on page 15):
- "A distinct period of cluster formation is visible in the LMC starting around
   the ~5 Gyr mark, which lasted up to ~1.3 Gyr ago."

   Given the strong rise seen in the age distribution for the LMC between ~5 and
   ~1.3 Gyr ago, I would strongly suggest stating "... which culminated ~1.3 Gyr
   ago."
ADVISORY


21. Sect. 6.2, a bit later in paragraph 2:
- "The height difference between the SMC and LMC KDEs is related to the decline
   in cluster formation."

   I would advise stating "... the relative decline in cluster formation."
ADVISORY


22. Sect. 6.2, paragraph 5:
- "In both Clouds there is a tendency for the mass and the size of the cluster,
   to grow with the estimated age, as expected."

   Please explain why this is as expected.
MANDATORY


23. Sect. 6.3, paragraph 7 (right side on page 17):
- "For the LMC galaxy, Fig. 14 center plot, we see a marked drop in metallicity
  from ~-0.45 dex beginning around 3.8 Gyr, and ending 3 Gyrs ago at ~ -0.6
  dex."

  Looking at the top panel of Fig. 14, it seems tht this apparent drop is caused
  by 3 (small) clusters at the "old" end of the age range covered by the data
  that happen to have relatively high values of [Fe/H]. Do the authors really
  believe this drop is statistically significant?
ADVISORY


24. Sect. 7, paragraph 2:
- "Internal errors show no biases present in our determination of fundamental
   parameters, as seen in Sect. 4."

- "We performed in Sect. 5.2.1 a detailed comparative study of masses obtained
  through integrated photometry studies, with our own estimates from CMD
  analysis. The total mass values from the latter studies are shown to be
  systematically overestimated. This result is opposite to the expectation that
  larger clusters can have their masses recovered with moderate accuracy, via
  integrated photometry."

   I would advise the authors to reconsider these two statements after looking
   into the apparent issue with cluster mass determinations brought up above in
   my points 18 and 19.
ADVISORY